index.md, before:

# Welcome To Book Of Physics by PhysicsBB

## What is this for?
This is a documentation by a recent physics graduate who is unwilling to let go of something that occupy all of him for the past 3 years. Despite the fact that learning can be meaningless without aiming at a particular degree validated by a formal institution, keep in mind that when you are in college, you suffer through it by reading on your own because lectures really are not too particularly useful... Unless if they're legendary. I found out that I learned so much more and remember things much better when I was reading on my own out of my own curiosity, so, sometimes it really helps to be cynical when it comes to learning. 

## More dummy texts
Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.

```{tableofcontents}
```

Commit message:

Updating some of the information

index.md, after:

# Welcome To Book Of Physics by PhysicsBB

## What is this for?
This is a documentation by a recent physics graduate who is unwilling to let go of something that occupy all of him for the past 3 years. Despite the fact that learning can be meaningless without aiming at a particular degree validated by a formal institution, keep in mind that when you are in college, you suffer through it by reading on your own because lectures really are not too particularly useful... Unless if they're legendary. I found out that I learned so much more and remember things much better when I was reading on my own out of my own curiosity, so, sometimes it really helps to be motivated by genuine interest when it comes to learning. 

## Goal:
While I do hope that you find someone's distress from an abundant amount of coffee chugging, pulling all-nighter and excessive skimming/revision to be entertaining, which you may have already noticed in the above section, in all seriousness, I believe that getting to thoroughly question what you have read, and deriving the necessary equations help declutter your own confusion to bridge the smaller puzzles to bigger concepts. It is what allows you to understand the subject on a much more prolific level. In addition to that, summarizing a book and dropping them down as notes, as you may have already done so, gives you a totally different level of understanding. Those who have written a senior thesis would know that their mental blocks are areas that they can use some more work to study and learn. The ultimate objective of this website, really, is to give myself an opportunity to revisit concepts that I wish I had more time to learn more about. 

## See Below for table of content:
```{tableofcontents}
```
